---
layout: post
title:  Bubble - Chapter 3 - Gratuitous Sacrilege (HD 85512 b)
author: Tulcha Siúil
permalink: bubble-gratuitous-sacrilege
categories: bubble
---

I stood in the center of the council chamber, surrounded by a ring of males towering over me, each bowed down by the weight of the penis coiled on their back.

“Childless Female, this is the second notice of Gratuitous Sacrilege”, the president intoned. “One more complaint, and you will be sold in the Lower Desert and your professional credentials will be nullified.”

I knew it was pointless to argue. The decision had already been taken. I uttered the formal apology and walked backward in abject submission towards the exit where my husband was waiting with my sister-wives. They all looked at me wordlessly. This had also hurt them. My husband had also been given a formal reprimand for allowing his wife to stray from orthodoxy, and his status amongst the males was in free fall.

“I suppose you are going back to the observatory”, he said at last.

I silently indicated in the affirmative.

“You know I could forbid it”, he said.

Of course, I knew. But I also noted a good sign: he called it the “observatory”, as we scientists called it, not the Sucking Chamber of the Ancient Gods, as the council persisted in naming it. I waited, looking at him in silent beseeching.

“You can go tomorrow”, he said.

I showed my deference and thanks, though hating that I’d be forced to spend the night in the mating room. Already I could see his coiled penis starting to uncurl in anticipation.

As we waited for a vehicle to carry us back to our rooms, I silently cursed my stupidity in publicly asserting that the Ancient Gods had been people like us, just with more advanced technology, and that we could learn and equal what they had done. I had jeopardized long years of work since that day when we had first cut through the sucking door and my student had nearly floated away in the void on the other side of the starry portal.

I thought of the excitement that followed, how we cut into another doorway and found another portal, this one in orbit around an alien planet, airless and dead. And I thought about the great tragedy when we drilled into the third door, expecting vacuum as before, but instead were blasted by superheated acidic gas that killed two of the team despite their pressure suit and filled the caverns with poison before we eventually managed to staunch the flow and seal our hole.

That tragedy had not just been the death of those two brave scientists, but the fact that it blew our secret. We could not hide the deaths. We could not hide the stench of sulfur that leaked out of the caverns.

That was when I got my first notice of Gratuitous Sacrilege. For the conservative males, it was clear that the poisonous fumes were a punishment from the Ancient Gods for violating the sanctity of their temple. The council wanted to punish me by forbidding me to practice Diabolical Science and maybe even forcing my husband to take me to the Lower Desert, far from any educated females and sell me in the wife-market there.

Luckily, my husband has noble blood, and patronage connections in the Palace. He was able to have the sentence set aside, but all my work would now be supervised and we were forbidden to open any more of the doors. No male could directly supervise my work because they could not fit down into the caverns so they assigned a company of Pious Nuns to watch over us.

The nuns were pretty easy to fool though, knowing nothing of science. We just gave vague explanations using gratuitous jargon and were careful to avoid sacrilegious talk, or at least we were until I in my excitement about the water jet discovery had let slip in front of a nun that this propulsion mechanism of the Gods was just a fairly straightforward mechanism that we could replicate. I remember my horror at seeing the nun I’d forgotten about, reach for her pad and write something on it, then disappear down the caverns toward the exit.

I shook myself out of my reverie and fell into line with my sister-wives behind my husband as we trooped into the vehicle. I would endure the night of mating and would be ready to get back to the observatory and try to make sense of the signals we were seeing from Third Planet.
