---
layout: post
title:  Bubble - Chapter 4 - Space-Time (Earth)
author: Tulcha Siúil
permalink: bubble-spacetime
categories: bubble
---

Aoife was finding it hard to concentrate on her work, with the constant stream of news alerts buzzing on her phone. The U.S. was creeping perilously close a nuclear exchange with Iran while the FBI had a cordon around the California legislature in Sacramento trying to enforce the Supreme Court’s injunctions. And closer to home, the early idealism over IONA in the wake of Brexit had been replaced by acrimony at the new parliament in Glasgow. The handful of Scottish Tories had joined together with the Democratic Unionist Party, and improbably they had been joined by Sinn Fein in their efforts to block the work of parliament. A common anti-IONA sentiment made for strange bedfellows.

And even amongst the majority of pro-IONA Federal MPs, there were threats of a vote of no confidence from a Labour-Fine-Gael coalition to bring down the shaky SNP-Fianna-Fail minority government. And looming above the new federal state was increasing pressure from the EU to secure the border with England and staunch the uncontrolled flow of goods and people into Scotland.

Aoife, gave a start as Lucas came up behind her and said something.

“Sorry, Lucas, I got distracted by the news. What was that you said?”

“I was just wondering if you had figured out how to tighten up the Spanner clocks yet?”

Aoife sighed. “No, it’s really odd. Somehow the atomic clocks are way more out of sync than they should be.”

“But way out there in the Asteroid belt, the flock is moving so fast that you have to take relativity into account.”

Aoife stiffened a bit at this mansplaining. Lucas should know she was a Physics major.

“Yes. The model does use special relativity to compensate for the time dilation between here and the flock, and between flock cells that have relative motion.”, she said. “ In fact, it also uses general relativity to account for differences due to the reduced gravitational potential out there. But the discrepancies in timing are much bigger.”

Aoife was so glad of the software they had got from JPL that allowed them to do the calculations. She herself had hacked on the code a bit to get it to work on the Google infrastructure and integrate with the monitoring software.

Aoife, continued, “I do have one thing to investigate. I noticed that the discrepancies increased for a pair of cells at the same time that we were getting the radio interference last week between those cells.”

“Sound’s good”, said Lucas. “Let me know if I can help.”

“Will do”, said Aoife, though she really did not expect him to be able to help. Lucas was a fairly good theoretical computer scientist, but really he was not great at this kind of system engineering work. In fact, she was still a bit resentful at his recent promotion over her, for work that they had done together. Somehow, he got most of the credit.

She turned to her workstation and navigated to the monitoring system that displayed graphs of latencies and error rates for all the various systems. Everything looked good with the exception of that one graph that showed the excessive time spread in flock-wide Spanner operations. She started drilling down, bringing up the data from last week when they had the OMG caused by inter-cell error rates well in excess of SLA that occurred in a sporadic way for several days over different pairs of cells. She ended up writing a query over the logs to join together the error rates during the OMG with the time discrepancies in Spanner.

She pressed the “execute” button. Unfortunately, she would have to wait at least an hour before she got any results. That was one of the disadvantages of working with data center software that was actually three AU away. Her query would take about half an hour to get there at light speed and the results would take as long to get back.

In the meantime, she went to the postmortem doc linked from the OMG to see what had actually been determined to have caused the error rate increase last week. Almost always outages were caused by some kind of human error, whether a bug in the software or some engineer fat-fingering a configuration command. There was a strong culture in Google of blame-free postmortems to learn from mistakes and fix them by fixing the processes that led to the mistakes, rather than blaming any individual. As Aoife reviewed the postmortem, she was a little surprised at how cursory it was. It did not seem up to the standard of the engineers she knew who had worked on it. She opened up the version history of the doc to double-check who had written what part and noticed that one of the previous edits had removed a lot of text. She looked to see who had made that edit and froze … it was Sergey! What was he doing editing a routine engineering document? She knew that he had a personal interest in Google Space, but it was a long time since he had done any engineering work.

She opened up the version of the doc before Sergey’s deletion and started reading.

An hour later she was leaning holding her head in her hands trying to figure out what to do when her workstation gave a chime to announce her query results had arrived back. It confirmed what she had suspected. Every incident of increased error rate coincided with an incident of clock skew. But there were no errors in the actual transmission of the timing data -- it just seemed to take longer to get between the cells during the outage.

She tried to put it all together in her head. The deleted part of the postmortem doc explained how the elevated error rate was due to interference caused by amplitude modulated signals that happened to be on the same frequency as Google’s inter-cell data channels. They had fixed the problem by just changing what frequency the flock’s radios used. The engineers who wrote the postmortem assumed it was some radio station from Earth, and when they listened to the audio it sounded like a tiger brushing its teeth with a xylophone as one engineer put it in the doc. Aoife followed the link to an audio file, and indeed it was very strange. It did sound a bit like an out-of-tune xylophone with a background of wheezy growling.

But Aoife was suspicious that this was coming from Earth. She used the JPL software to determine the orbital parameter of all the pairs of cells at the times of the incidents and plotted each as a line in 3-D. She stared at the 3-D plot, rotating it around on the screen to see it better, and gasped. The weird radio signal was coming from something orbiting right in the middle of the flock!

She wrote up her findings in a short doc and shared it with a couple of the senior engineers over in the space sciences department.

Less than an hour later, she got an unexpected chat message. Her VP had just pinged her. “Can you jump on a quick video call in five minutes?”. She went to find a conference room.

She really did not like Hugo Martin very much. He was a bit overly flirty and touchy with the women engineers, and always seemed more like a politician than an engineer. But he ran the show.

In the conference room, she clicked through to their video call, and his bald-shaven head appeared. He was calling from the Google offices in Zurich.

“Hi Aoife”, he said, the vowels awkward in his Spanish accent. “Thank you for that analysis of the OMG last week. You revealed some new information that is helpful to us.”

He spent some time asking her for more details, mostly about the exact time aberrations in the clock transmissions. Then he invited her to his staff meeting the next day and instructed her to not share anything about this with her colleagues.
