---
layout: post
title:  Bubble - Chapter 2 - Rocket Science (Earth)
author: Tulcha Siúil
permalink: bubble-rocket-science
categories: bubble
---

Aoife was still amazed at the turn her job had taken.  Last week she was working as a site reliability engineer for an internal Google database, and now she was unpacking her boxes at her new desk in Google Space building on the other side of The Grand Canal. She was still pretty skeptical of Google’s latest acquisitions, but at least they were pretty cheap to purchase after the spectacular collapse of the first generation of private space companies. Whether or not it made business sense, it sure made for some interesting work, and she would get to work with honest-to-goodness rocket scientists.

She had scored a plum desk too, with a view out the window overlooking the recently transformed skyline of Dublin, where the old docks area was now a landscape of organically curved steel and glass buildings, serving as the European headquarters of much of the tech industry. Down on the streets, she could see the light poles covered in election posters for the upcoming referendum. The nationalists “No Glasgow Rule” slogan seem scream everywhere, but the latest polls were pointing to a pro-IONA vote, for which Aoifa was grateful.

Her teammate Lucas, came into the working area and greeted her.

“Hey, Aoife! Welcome to Space!  Getting settled?”

“Cheers Lucas.  Thanks. Just need to get my workstation set up”, she said as she crawled under the desk to get the various cables plugged into their correct sockets.

Lucas was from North London, one of the many skilled workers who had streamed out from post-Brexit, post-COVID England. Most of the finance people had gone to Frankfurt, but a large proportion of the tech workers had come to Dublin.

“Well”, said Lucas, “now that you’re officially on the team, let me brief you on some confidential stuff that just got decided last week.”

After Aoife crawled out from under her desk, they went into a nearby conference room, and Lucas laid out the plan. Google had just gobbled up a hodge-podge of space assets from failing companies in the last six months, including fleets of satellites with data storage designed to be a data haven secure from government interference, and telerobotic landers intended to be landed on the Moon or Mars where high-paying customers could operate them using virtual reality headsets. But now they were going to reconfigure all of those spacecraft into a flock that would sail together out to the asteroids.

“Wow, that’s audacious”, said Aoife. “But why go there?  Why to the Asteroid Belt?”


Lucas smiled, and paused a beat, before saying. “We’re going to mine asteroids!”.

Aoife was stunned. That made no sense.  How could it possibly be done in an economic way? Before switching to tech, Aoife had got a degree in physics and knew about delta-vee calculations and how widely scattered the asteroids were, and how little was known of any particular asteroid’s composition. She tried to explain this to Lucas, but he waved her off, saying that they had it all figured out, that they were going to use mass-drivers to shoot rods of compacted ore they had mined into Earth re-entry trajectories. As he talked, she tried to do a back-of-the-envelope calculation of how much solar panel area you would need to power such a mass driver, but then realized that even if it were energetically possible, building the actual rails of a mass driver on an asteroid was implausible. What’s more, if by some miracle you could do it you would be in possession of the most powerful weapon of mass destruction that humanity had ever invented, capable of raining destruction on any city on Earth with hypervelocity missiles. It was crazy. She looked up from the calculations she was scribbling on a Post-It and saw that Lucas was already excusing himself to go to another meeting.

Well, whatever about the ultimate goal, they were certainly going to the Asteroid Belt. Over the next few days, Aoife came up to speed on the details of the plans.

Already the Google engineers who normally designed the software for earthbound data centers had adapted their systems for the high-latency, unreliable environment of the flock, and re-imaged all the data-haven satellites with Google’s version of Linux and networking systems. Aoife’s job was to help design and run the distributed database system that would run on top of this system. And on top of Aoife’s system would run a set of machine learning and rocketry software to guide the flock and control the telerobotic landers now repurposed as eyes and hands that would do any required maintenance on the flock, playing the role that human technicians played in more conventional data centers.

All of this these design assumed that nothing could be controlled in real-time from Earth because there would be at least a one hour round-trip time for all communication to the Asteroid belt. Everything would be autonomous.
